<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <meta content="Microsoft Word 12 (filtered)" name="Generator"/>
    <title>Style A ReadMe</title>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
  <div class="section">
    <div class="sgc2">
      <h1 class="tochead" id="heading_id_2">welcome</h1>
    </div>

    <p class="body"><br class="calibre2"/></p>

    <p class="body">Thank you for purchasing the MEAP for <span class="italics">Sails.js in Action</span>. To get the most benefit from this book, you’ll want to know how to build a web page, and be familiar with the DOM, HTML, and CSS. We assume a fair bit of knowledge with JavaScript, including objects and arrays, functions, and scope, as well as events and callbacks on the front-end. Finally we assume that you have experience making AJAX requests to a server.</p>

    <p class="body">The pace at which new technologies have emerged to deliver applications over the web has been nothing short of astounding. We’re in the middle of a technology renaissance in which two important innovations have emerged.</p>

    <p class="listbullet">·   The first is the transition away from a purely server-based approach to building user interfaces to a more client-focused Single Page App (SPA) approach.</p>

    <p class="listbullet">·   The second is the widespread adoption of JavaScript outside the browser and, more specifically, on the server via Node.js.</p>

    <p class="body">These two innovations have forced a reassessment of how developers build web applications. And it is these two innovations which drove Sails’ early design.</p>

    <p class="body">Sails makes it easy to build truly custom, enterprise-grade Node.js applications. The key to a successful project, however, is a complete understanding of the concepts you’ll use to build an application, coupled with a sustainable and repeatable development process.</p>

    <p class="body">We’re going to strive to have some fun in this book while teaching you these concepts, techniques, and tools of the Sails Framework. Each chapter will build on its predecessor, with reinforcing, real-world examples. By the end of the book, you’ll be prepared to deliver web applications that exceed expectations within a process that you can easily repeat.</p>

    <p class="body">Please be sure to post any comments, suggestions, or questions in the book’s forum. Your feedback will help us develop the best book possible.</p>

    <p class="body"> </p>

    <p class="body">—  Mike McNeil</p>

    <p class="body">—  Irl Nathan</p>
  </div>
</body>
</html>
